[MUSIC]
In this section we will review Dropout,
and
review its connections
with a Bayesian framework.
So Dropout was invented in 2011, and
became popular regularization technique.
We know that it works.
We know that its params are fitting.
And the essence of Dropout is actually
just injection of the noise to
the variance, or to the activations
at each iteration of our training.
The magnitude of this noise is defined by
user, and is usually called dropout rate.
The noise can be different.
For example, it can be Bernoulli noise,
then we are talking about binary dropout.
Or it can be Gaussian noise,
then we tell about Gaussian dropout.
Let us review Gaussian dropout in details.
At each iteration of training, we generate
Gaussian noise with a mean of 1 and
variance Alpha.
Then I multiply each weight
Theta ij to Epsilon ij,
Epsilon ij is this noise generated
from Gaussian distribution,
and obtain noisified
versions of the waves, wij.
Let us consider Gaussian
dropout in details.
Additional iteration of training,
we multiply always Theta ij by
Gaussian noise, Epsilon ij.
Epsilon ij goes from a Gaussian
distribution with a mean of 1 and
variance Alpha.
Then I obtain noisified
versions of the weights, wij.
And finally, we compute stochastic
gradients of a triangle
gradient given these noisified weights, w.
But then we obtain exactly the same
stochastic gradient as it would
be if we optimized the expectation with
respect to Gaussian distribution over w.
With weight Theta, and variance Alpha
Theta squared, obtaining our likelihood.
So the distribution itself
is fully factorized.
To show it, let us first perform
a little regularization trick.
So we change the distribution over
w to the distribution over Epsilon.
Epsilon now has a min of 1 and variance of
Alpha, and it is still fully factorized.
And the old likelihood is computed
at the point Theta times Epsilon.
Now our probability density
doesn't depend on theta, and
we may move the differentiation
inside of our integral.
And then we may change the integral
to its Monte Carlo estimate, and
obtain exactly the same expression
as it was on the previous slide.
So now we know that Gaussian dropout
optimizes the following objective.
This expectation with respect
to the distribution over w,
the distribution is fully factorized and
its Gaussian, with a mean of Theta ij and
variance Alpha Theta ij squared.
And the expectation is computed
from obtaining a likelihood.
So this looks pretty much the same
like the first term in ELBO, where as
an regularization approximation we used
fully factorized Gaussian distribution.
But where is the second term?
Where is the KL divergence?
Remember that ELBO consists of 2 terms,
the data term and
the negative KL divergence,
that is our regularizer.
In Gaussian dropout,
we have shown that we are optimizing with
respect to Theta of just the first term.
So we managed to find such
prior distribution, p(W),
that the second term will depend only on
Alpha, and it will not depend on Theta.
Now I've managed to prove that this
two procedures are exactly equivalent.
So remember that in Gaussian dropout,
Alpha is assumed to be fixed.
And if Alpha is fixed,
then optimization of ELBO is equivalent to
the optimization of just the first
term with respect to Theta.
Surprisingly such prior
distribution exists, and
it is known from information theory.
So this is a so-called
improper log-uniform prior.
It is fully factorized again,
and each of its factors is proportional
to 1 over absolute value of wij.
This is improper distribution,
so it can not be normalized.
Nevertheless, it has
several quite nice purpose.
For example, if we consider the algorithm
of absolute value of wij, in other words,
it is to show that it will be uniformly
distributed from minus to plus infinity.
And again,
this is improper probability distribution.
For us, it is important that this
prior distribution, roughly speaking,
analysis the precision with
which we are trying to find wij.
We may easily show that the counter
divergence between our Gaussian numeration
approximation and such kind of prior
distribution will be dependent only
on Alpha, and will not depend on Theta.
The counter divergence is still
intractable function, but
now it is a function of just
one-dimensional parameter Alpha,
and it can be easily approximated
by smooth, differentiable function.
So in the figure you see the black dots.
This is the exact values
of our KL divergence,
given different values of Alpha.
And the red curve is our smooth,
differentiable approximation.
And the existence of this smooth,
differential approximation means that
potentially we may optimize the KL
divergence with expect to Alpha.
And hence, we optimize the ELBO with
respect to both Theta and Alpha.
And this is what we are going
to do in the next lecture.
So to conclude, dropouts is
a popular regularization technique.
The essence of dropout is simple injection
of the noise in each iteration you obtain.
In this lecture, we have shown
that one of the popular dropouts,
so-called Gaussian dropout,
is exactly equivalent to a special kind
of generalization Bayesian procedure.
And this understanding, the understanding
that dropout is a particular case
of Bayesian inference, allows us to
construct various generalizations of
dropout that may possess several
quite interesting properties.
We'll review one of them
in the next lecture.
[MUSIC]